[Music]
my name is maja Ivarsson
and I've been teaching belly danced
poober for the last ten years in my
culture I'm with Palestinian Lebanese
background it's a very important dance
for women and it is a dance of the
feminine and it has been known to be a
dancer conception a dance of fertility
and a dance many long years ago it
started off in pregnancy in pregnancy
most of the attention is surround the
hips the pelvis the baby and the belly
but on a deeper spiritual level it's
about a woman coming to terms with their
femininity with the mother within
themself and belly dancing beautifully
combines the physical and the spiritual
and the emotion and so when we dance in
pregnancy we are connecting our physical
body that is that episode was in our
baby with our story with a personal
story with our emotion and what comes
from that is the journey toward it just
makes sense
moving the pelvis in circular motion the
figure-eight movements the rocking of
the hips all of these movements actually
mimic the movements sometimes women can
be a little bit intimidating when they
first hear about belly dance for
pregnancy and birth they think they've
got to come out and do this incredible
gas for an audience and I tell them
within you and your baby
it's not about cabaret or performing for
somebody else it's an intimate dance for
the self the dance the dance for you
your baby the dance to connect yourself
[Music]
and so many women that I teach after
they've had their babies and they
describe how they use the movements in
labor but it really makes sense to them
but it's a really relevant birthing
exercise and preparation often I see
many women who become disconnected from
that aspect of the feminine from that
aspect of the primal brain when it comes
to pregnancy and giving birth and ice'
really see belly dancing as drawing
those two together connecting primal
brain and the modern women and shaking
hands once again with the feminine it's
beautiful really it does not matter
where you are when you use these belly
dance for birth movements in labor it
doesn't matter whether you're at home
whether you're in a hospital whether
you're standing out in a field wherever
you are these movements are accessible
to you when a contraction starts in
labor as you move your pelvis in slow
circular motion you are moving with the
contraction with the sensation with the
pain with the wave of the contraction
not against it by moving with gravity if
you remain upright you're moving with
gravity it also helps the movements help
the baby's head to be massaged down onto
the cervix so in that way of the
circling of the hips and the pelvis the
babies
kid gets pushed down on to the cervix to
help to thin and dilate the cervix hand
in hand they work together so instead of
feeling tensed and locked up when a
contraction comes it's a matter of
opening and surrending and moving into
it and belly dance movements those
circular movements the rocking of the
hips the figure-eight movements they
work with and into the contraction
rather than against it you can drape
yourself over your partner and drop into
the contractions letting all your weight
go and keeping upright moving with
gravity you can lean against a table
lean against a chair against a wall even
in a birthing pool leaning against the
edge of the birthing pool and keep on
rocking the hips circling the pelvis and
moving into the contraction it's very
simple the key word is simplicity and
you know what to do your body
[Music]
you